Hello welcome back to the course and by programming in today's tutorial we're starting to learn how
to work with doorframes I skritch see how to import data sets into Python.
And in today's tutorial we're going to need a specific package which is called Pandurs is going to import
Pandurs as PD.
So what does this package do why why Pandurs or is it all about.
Well Panas is a great package.
One of the best if not the best in Python for working with doorframes as you'll see daughter frames
are a step up for matrices.
They are similar to tables similar to what you see in Excel so the columns usually have headers have
names.
And then there's a certain list of rules so it's the perfect structure for working with data sets that
she would otherwise otherwise see in Excel or in a school or other data science tools.
Now pandas is a very powerful package it has lots of structures that are very well thought through very
useful functions within it.
And as you'll see pandas is very similar to the way doorframes work in art.
So if you've done our programming course or if you have some experience with far then you will find
what we'll be doing in Panas very familiar to what you've done and are.
So we're going to report this package.
Let's run this line.
And now we're going to focus on in this article we will focus on importing the data set into our analysis
.
So let's get started with this.
We're going to look at two methods a method.
Number one we're going to specify full path to file and what this means is that we go into we knowing
where the file is we're going to actually specify the exact location regardless of where we are running
right now where this Jupiter notebook is running with a home director with a working directly for Jupiter
is we going to specify the file.
So let's see how this is done in Windows if you need to specify the following code so stats and stats
is going to be the name of our data from we're going to be working for a lot so feel free to say give
it a different name if you like.
So what do we need.
Is that read CXXVI function from the python's package.
And here we go in to specify where exactly our file is located.
So if you're on Windows you would specify in quotation marks specify C then use double backslashes because
that will allow you to avoid problems with escape sequences.
We're just going to specify C colon double backslash users backslash curial that's me.
Desktop by double backslash Python.
So this is where mine is.
Yours might be in a different location right in Python programming course and then its demographic data
dots.
Beautiful.
So that's where my file is and that's how you do it on Windows.
I'm not going to run this line because I will get an error over on that.
On a Mac where the way to specify the same command is stat's equals PD Daut read underscores GSV.
And then in quotation marks you specify for a slash.
So users in this case it's curial or Menko.
Again me again desktop slash Python programming course and slash demographic data dot csv.
All right so there we go.
That's the Windows version up the top with double backslashes especially if typed in everything correctly
and that's the Mac version of the forward slashes.
All right so I'm going to run this cell and therefore run the Mac version.
And now I've got the stats doorframe prepared so if I look at stats you will see what we have is actually
a table.
It is exactly the same table that is in Excel or in the CSP file.
And here we've gotten all of our daughter in here so you can see that there's some triple dots here
just showing that there's a lot of lines so in order not to clutter our workspace they're skipping them
but they tell you at the bottom one 95 roast has five columns.
One two three four five called.
So this as you'll see here this column with numeration doesn't count.
And also the row with the name or with the column names doesn't count as well so actually at 195 rows
of pure data.
That's what we have.
All right.
So that was the first method that you can use to load a file and I wanted to show you a second method
in case it's just you know two.
And then you can use the one you're comfortable with in your own projects.
So let's look at Myth number two.
Method 2 is we actually change working directory.
So what is the working directory.
Well we'll see just now.
So let's import os that's another package.
And and now we're going to print OS Daut get CW D.
So gets the working directory if you're on that.
You'll see that my working directory currently is.
Users Kyrle or Manco by and programming course.
That's where this Jupiter notebook is saved and that is where Jupiter can access auxilary files so if
I put a file in this folder then I'll be able to call it before actually specifying the full path.
So what you'll see is that in this particular case the file I've already put the file in the correct
folder so it's going to be super easy right.
So my file is already in the same folder as the working directory.
So it makes things a bit more interesting or fun.
We're going to actually mess this up for ourselves and then we will change it back.
So I'll show you how to do that.
So let's go and do this.
So on Windows is a similar process so is O S C HDI our change directory and let's say you want to change
it to see a double backslash users that will backslash curial double backslash desktop right and then
on a Mac.
So I'm going to comment this out on a Mac.
You would say OS Dotts CAGR were quotations and then you would say users will remain co slash desktop
and I I run this.
Nothing happens but the line ran correctly the and so if I print the working directory Now if I run
this line you will see that my working directory directories users killer Menko desktop.
So basically any files on my desktop are directly accessible to Jupiter notebook so I can access them
for spacing their full Poth I can just say whatever the name of that file and Jupiter will by default
look inside this directory.
So therefore if I try let's say I want to import my file so how would I important.
I would say stat's two equals PD dot read underscore CXXVI.
And here it's a demographic dot dot CAC.
If I try that I'll get an error.
Right.
So what does it say.
It says go to the bottom.
It says file demographic data.
Dodd says he does not exist because by default it's looking on my desktop and the file doesn't exist
there.
So how can we fix this.
Well we can either specify this approach at the top right we can either specify the full path to the
file or what we can do is change the working directory.
So how do we change or convert.
Very simple.
We just fix up these lines.
So on Windows you'd say.
All right so I want to be in the Python programming course folder.
And on a Mac.
Same thing.
I'm just actually going to copy this but with a single slash.
There we go so far on this.
So I just ran this line over here.
Now if I get the working directory on this just copy this line add another cell by clicking B.
There we go.
If I run this line you'll see that there it is.
That's the new working directory.
And now if I run the second import you'll see that it imported totally fine.
So that's two.
And there it is.
2 has also been loaded.
It's exactly the same as stat's one.
So there we go that's how we import files into Python as a data frame and make sure your files are C
S V because that's the function that we're using retests We hope you found this tural useful and now
you know two ways of importing files into Python and you can always use the one that you find more comfortable
and I'll look for you next time.
Until then happy coding
.